the megalodon which means big tooth is
the largest shark ever to roam the
earth's seas and oceans
it reportedly lived 23 to 3.6 million
years ago
and was truly enormous its bite was more
powerful than that of a t-rex
and no wonder not only did the animal
have super strong
jaws but its teeth also reached 7 inches
in length
that's as long as a small hedgehog even
better the megalodon had about 300 teeth
growing in at least
six rows the shark got rid of them as
soon as they wore down
the shark itself could grow up to 59
feet that's twice the length of a london
double-decker bus
it was heavy too while a fully grown
t-rex weighed about eight tons
a large megalodon's weight reached 50 to
60 tons
as much as nine mature african elephants
with no competitors the immense shark
was a real king of the oceans
it even hunted whales when the megalodon
was ready to give birth
it would travel to shallow waters where
large predators couldn't follow
scientists have found several of these
nurseries in the bone valley region of
florida
the calvert cliffs in maryland and the
gaddon formation in panama to name a few
and
experts know these spots are nurseries
because they found one and a half
inch long baby megalodon teeth there but
before your
aw how cute meter starts to go off you
should know that baby megalodons were
about
six and a half feet long at birth even
at that size
they still needed to be protected from
other big sharks and whales
so like modern sharks megalodon young
probably stayed in the nursery until
they were big enough to stand their own
ground against larger predators
the megalodon wasn't the only giant to
terrorize the oceans
liviatin mavelle was a sperm whale that
was over 60 feet long
weighed more than 50 tons and its 14
inch teeth were the
biggest of the animal kingdom the
megalodon and the liviatin both lived in
the myocene epoch
they needed massive amounts of food and
since both of them had a particular
taste for baleen whales
they'd fight over prey and territory
just imagine that epic battle
the megalodon was the top predator of
the ocean
until it wasn't the giant shark went
extinct 2.6 million years ago
and there are several theories as to why
this happened one of them
suggests climate change is to blame the
megalodon would swim in warm waters but
climate change would have decreased the
temperature of the oceans over the years
until the meg could no longer survive in
the cold waters
another theory claims that it was
increased competition from large
predators that left this massive shark
without any food
a 2017 study published in the journal of
paleogeography
paleoclimatology and paleoecology
claims that the megalodon met its end
when its prey went extinct
this study theorizes that with a
disappearance of prey
the predator that feasts on it would go
extinct as well
since small baleen whales went extinct
it's likely that the megalodon
soon followed kritok's arena is also
known as the ginsu shark
this creature roamed the season oceans a
hundred million years ago in the
cretaceous period
despite this fact they look pretty
similar to modern sharks
these predators reached a weight of a
thousand to two thousand pounds
and could grow as long as 25 feet they
had incredibly sharp teeth
not unlike knives therefore their diet
included not only fish and smaller
marine animals
but also a random dinosaur for example a
tylosaurus
this massive shark reigned over the
oceans 60 to 45 million years ago
autodesk could grow up to 30 feet in
length and weigh more than 4 000 pounds
that's the weight of the average new car
in the u.s
this predator could also boast
razor-sharp four-inch long teeth
with the help of these daggers otadas
feasted on big fish
and whales helicoprion was not only one
of the biggest but also one of the most
uncommon prehistoric sharks it lived
about 290 million years ago
these sharks got their name helicoprion
from the greek for
spiral saw thanks to the highly unusual
coils of teeth lining their jaws
those coils tended to unfurl like a
table saw crushing their prey
try to get this image out of your head
now taikudus which means
folded teeth in greek lived 90 to 60
million years ago
this was a massive shark that could
reach 30 feet in length with a weight
that varied between one and two thousand
pounds
this shark was different from other
prehistoric sharks because it had large
teeth which however were flat due to
this fact
tychodus was a bottom feeder with a diet
of shellfish and mollusks
the frilled shark looks like an
overgrown eel and has
gills lined with red fringe at the edges
hence the name
the creature's horrifying mouth is lined
up with
25 rows of razor-sharp backward-facing
teeth
300 in total the shark hovers in the
water
waiting to charge at its prey like a
snake
the deep sea hatchet fish has a
ridiculously skinny body
and large tubular eyes pointing upward
the fish might look fragile
even the largest specimens reach only 6
inches in length
but it can live at a depth of 5 000 feet
the hatchet fish can also regulate its
glow depending on the amount of light
around
with its protruding flattened snout and
pink colored skin
the goblin shark looks like a visitor
from another planet
the creature's terrifying jaws are
attached to elastic ligaments
when prey comes too close the shark
catapults its mouth
forward to catch it if your mouth could
do the same
you'd be able to eat things dangling
seven inches away from your face
the mariana snail fish is the deepest
fish ever discovered
pink blind and so see through you can
spot its liver
the creature thrives at twenty six
thousand feet below the surface
scientists believe the animal's flexible
bones help it withstand the
mind-boggling pressure
they can only guess though not a single
specimen has been caught yet
one of the mariana trench's inhabitants
glows brightly like an electric bulb
that's the deep sea dragon fish it looks
like an upgraded eel
equipped with oversized teeth chemical
processes
inside the fish's body produce an eerie
red glow
this glow is then used to communicate
with other fish
the creature is about six inches long
and can live
at an impressive depth of six thousand
feet where the waters are cold and
lightless
the ping pong tree sponge may look like
a beautiful ethereal lamp
but its disappearance is deceptive this
creature with a funny name
is a dangerous carnivorous sponge living
at the depths of nearly 9000 feet
the soft looking balls are covered in
minuscule hook-shaped spikes
can we say velcro they trap careless sea
inhabitants and consume them
which looks as if the prey simply melts
away on the translucent globes
ew even though zombie worms grow to be
two inches at the most
they can break down the most massive
creatures so
strong the acid they produce is their
feathery appearance makes the worms look
like a plant
but the truth is these creatures munch
on rock hard bones of the world's
largest animals
such as whales a tiny bizarre
jellyfish lives in the mariana trench at
a depth of more than two thousand five
hundred feet
it's around one inch in diameter and has
about fifteen hundred
tiny wispy tentacles unlike many
jellyfish which are
transparent this one has a reddish bell
most likely to mask the glow of the
microscopic animals
the jellyfish munches on dwarf lantern
shark
the smallest shark in the world could
fit in your hand
it has light emitting organs called
photophores not for navigation
but camouflage with sunlight coming in
from above
blue ringed octopus might be small but
this thing is no joke
one of the only venomous octopus species
an
antidote to its sting still hasn't been
found
sarcastic fringehead not my college
roommate
small aggressive fish can open its huge
mouth like
wings there was one case when this
monster even tried to swallow an entire
octopus
oh the sarcastic in its name means to
tear
apart red lionfish despite its harmless
appearance
this fish is a dangerous monster it can
swallow other fish two-thirds its body
size
called lionfish because of its mane of
venomous spikes
striped surgeon fish this one's name
comes from
scalpel sharp spikes near its tail fin
that the fish uses for self-defense
spikes not only cut deep they're also
venomous
black dragon fish the only creature
known to have chlorophyll the stuff that
makes plants green
in its eyes also the only creature known
to produce infrared light
gives advantage in hunting since most
animals can't see an infrared
reef stone fish sharp needles on its
back that can easily pierce through the
bottom of a shoe
even worse this fish looks like an
ordinary rock so
it's easy to step on it worse worse
it's the most venomous fish in the world
viperfish
known for having the largest teeth
relative to their heads
have evolved over time to become blacker
in color so
prey can't see them in the deep ocean
until it's too late
lamprey scary-looking jawless fish
stick to their prey with suction cup
like mouth oh and
it's full of rows and rows of teeth mega
piranha
longer than your arm and heavier than a
bowling ball its real power was in its
bite
its jaws locked down with a force 50
times the fish's weight
that'd be like a person having the bite
force of a t-rex
now this crab looks like something you'd
see in a video game or some sci-fi
alien movie my goodness just look at it
the giant spider crab lives in the
waters near japan
their legs reach about 11 and a half
feet from claw to claw
and the body can be around 14.5 inches
in diameter
it spends most of its time looking for
animal remains mollusks and shellfish to
feed on
but don't be fooled thinking this crab
looks a little twiggy and weak
its massive size alone keeps most
predators away
when one does decide to attack it though
the crabs hard exoskeleton provides it
with excellent protection
the design on its back also helps it
blend into the environment
and disappear if it needs to that's why
the giant spider crab can live up to an
impressive 100 years when left alone
unfortunately that's not the case since
the species is targeted by the fishing
industry
and sold as a delicacy in japan the
great white gets its name from its
distinct white belly under its grey body
as for the great part that's simply
because some of them can grow over 20
feet long
as for your average great white shark
it's usually about 15 feet in length
making it the largest predatory fish in
the world as predators
they love to feed on sea lions seals and
small whales
thanks to its strong tail and
torpedo-shaped body
the great white can swim at speeds up to
15 miles per hour when in pursuit of its
prey
yeah that means we humans have no chance
of escape if we find ourselves in this
crosshairs
actually great whites are responsible
for up to half of the yearly shark
attack incidents reported worldwide
they have a highly evolved sense of
smell and can sniff
one tiny drop of blood in 25 gallons of
water
so if you're bleeding even the tiniest
bit it's probably a good idea to avoid
going into the ocean
don't let the name fool you it's a shark
not a whale
these huge fish are covered in white
spots that have a unique design for each
individual shark
quite pretty don't you think the whale
shark ranges in size from 18 to 32.8
feet
and can weigh about 20.6 tons
that's two times heavier than a cruise
ship anchor
you'd imagine that the largest fish in
the sea would devour
any and everything in its path but they
actually just prefer to eat plankton
whale sharks swim with their mouths wide
open
which might look kind of funny to you or
me but it's actually a great way of
catching fish
plants and other small marine life forms
all it has to do is swim around
and its mouth will do all the work for
it similar to baleen whales
the whale shark has a filter feeder
system where the filter pads work to
separate food from water
perhaps the most impossible creature in
the world is a jellyfish
it doesn't have any sensory organs we're
used to like eyes ears and a nose
it has no skeleton but most importantly
it hasn't gotten a brain or heart
its body is almost entirely made of
water that's why
if you take a jellyfish out of the sea
and put it on the shore
it will soon melt at the same time
there's a species of jellyfish that can
live forever in a safe environment
it just might be that jellyfish have
given up their hearts and brains
for the sake of other sea creatures
because octopuses
for example can have multiple of those
the giant pacific octopus in particular
has
nine brains and three hearts eight
smaller brains allow
each of the animals arms to move
independently while being coordinated by
the bigger central one
and the hearts pump the octopus's blood
which is blue by the way
to its gills and the rest of the body
still the champion in terms of heart
numbers is a hag fish
it has four of those these unsavory
lamprey-like sea creatures
use one of their hearts as a main pump
having the rest of them
assisted hagfish also emit slime that
can fill a water bottle in just a few
seconds
and sneezes when this slime gets into
its nose
great white sharks can move at a speed
of up to 25 miles per hour
the secret is in their denticles small
flat v-shaped scales
these scales significantly lessen drag
force and turbulence
olympic swimsuit designers did their
best to duplicate the shark's tentacles
creating a fabric that makes swimmers
sleeker and faster in the water
the shark's fin also became a huge
inspiration for inventing new technology
for clean energy
one australian company made a device
that captures
tidal energy from the ocean and converts
it into electric power with minimal
environmental impact
a 2018 harvard university study suggests
that these unique dentals on shark's
skin
can also help to create more efficient
planes and cars
the team of engineers found out that
they increase lift
lift is the force that pulls a plane up
when the pressure of the air on top of
the wing
is less than the pressure of the air
under the bottom of the wing
so by incorporating 3d printed images of
the denticles on the wings
engineers hope to make them more
aerodynamic they can also be used for
vortex
generators a small vein attached to the
top of the rear windshield of a car
which increases the downforce of a
vehicle
as you already know the shark population
is declining
this means that there are much more
turtles crabs and stingrays
and their favorite food is sea grass but
seagrass is a vital part of the blue
carbon ecosystem
which captures and stores carbon 40
times more efficiently than tropical
rainforests
that's why without sharks the marine
creatures keep eating the sea grass
disrupting the blue carbon ecosystems
and releasing ancient carbon
this has the same effect as the
greenhouse gas emissions from
cars that destroy the ozone layer
leading to unpredictable and harmful
climate change there's a stereotype that
sharks purposefully hunt humans
but most shark attacks happen because
these predators mistake swimmers for
their usual prey
like seals or sea lions the other reason
why a shark might attack is its curious
nature
this predator tends to bite things to
figure out if they'll make a suitable
meal
just like humans do at a buffet there's
an opinion that once a shark stops
swimming
its life will be over however this idea
is
only partially true first of all it's
important to understand how
sharks breathe in fact they can do it in
two ways
buckle pumping and ram ventilation while
using the first method
sharks pull the water into their mouth
with the help of their cheek muscles
and then expel it through their gills
and this method allows predators to lie
on the sea floor without movement
but if the sharks use ram ventilation
they have to keep moving so that the
water moves over their gills
that's why most people believe that
without constant swimming
sharks won't get the oxygen necessary
for life but the catch is that only 20
or so shark species out of more than 400
use ram ventilation alone and it's
actually true that a few shark species
won't be able to breathe if something
prevents them from moving
but the rest of the predators use either
both breathing methods
or the buckle pumping method and can
easily rest on the seafloor
now have you ever heard of sharks
jumping out of the water and
knocking someone off of a boat if you
believe this myth
you've probably watched too many
thriller movies some shark species
such as the great white shark are indeed
capable of leaping more than eight feet
into the air to catch prey for example
seals and birds
but unless you're in south africa you'll
have a hard time trying to find sharks
jumping out of the water
it's been said if a shark is heading
towards you
hide among the jellyfish well if you
want to waste your time and hurt
yourself go ahead
but the truth is that sharks have a
really thick skin
and jellyfish stings will feel like
nothing more than a tickle
admittedly these predators have quite
vulnerable eyes
but sharks can protect them by covering
them with special membranes
you on the other hand will fall victim
to extremely painful
and often venomous jellyfish stings so
don't be like dory oops that was a
spoiler
sorry it's another common misconception
that all
sharks are predators for instance the
ginormous and thus terrifying
whale shark is in fact a friendly giant
which has to filter plankton through its
modified gills to feed itself
and the bottom dwelling nurse shark is a
suction feeder
whose diet includes mostly sea urchins
lobsters
and small stingrays it's not a good idea
to make the assumption
that if a shark hasn't attacked anyone
there must be no sharks in this area
sharks live in all the world's oceans
both in coastal waters and the deep sea
what's more some sharks can even be
found in lakes and rivers with fresh
water
so if you don't see a shark it might
mean that it's just not
interested